Project plan
The aim of this project is to redo the analysis described in the article “Transcriptomic and epigenomic characterization of the developing 
bat wing” by Eckalbar et al. The article describes an analysis of how bat wings are developed by comparing gene expression and the 
different development between fore- and hindlimbs during several embryonic stages of the bat species Miniopterus natalensis. 
By redoing the analysis using the same data and similar methods, the results obtained in the study by Eckalbar et al. can be confirmed or not. 
Since bats are the only mammal capable of flying, the study of the development of their wings is really interesting, especially if comparing
with a mammal closely related to the bat without wings, such as mouse. Therefore, the analysis will also contain comparisons with mouse genomes. 

Several analyses will be performed during this project using different software. Firstly, a quality check of the bat genome data will be
performed using the software fastQC, which takes approximately 3 minutes. The quality check will be followed by trimming of the data using 
Trimmomatic which takes about 1-10 minutes per file, and thereafter another quality check using fastQC will be performed for another 3 minutes. 
Next, a genome assembly of Illumina reads, short-reads, will be performed using SOAPdenovo. This analysis takes about 1,5 hours. Thereafter, a 
quality assessment of the of the assembly needs to be performed, using MUMmerplot, taking up less than 5 minutes of time. After this, a structural
and functional annotation will be performed, using BRAKER. And at last, a differential expression analysis will be done using Htseq, also performed 
under 5 minutes.

Most of the analyses that needs to be performed during this project doesn’t take so much time, except the genome assembly which possibly is the
only bottle-neck. All of the analyses are preferably planned ahead in a time plan to make sure that there is enough time for the genome assembly. 
Since everything doesn’t always go as planned, some extra time needs to be planned for too, for each analysis.

The time frame for the project spans from week 12 until approximately week 20, with a break during week 13. In total, there are 8 weeks of time 
for the project. Since each of the analyses takes quite short time, it should be possible to perform them during the first four weeks, and thereafter 
analyze the data and results obtained by the analyses, and also compare the results with the results described in the article by Eckalbar et al. 
The genome assembly, which is the most time-consuming analysis should be performed before the 15th of April according to the course deadlines.

Since there will be a lot of data and different files used during the project, it is important to organize and structure everything in a good way in GitHub.
The most important thing is to use informative names, so that it is clear what data that each file contains. The data should also be saved in plain text 
files as .tsv or .csv. Code and data should also be separated in the working directory.

This project will be challenging, both since all of these analyses are new to me and also the way of working with data. If I get stuck, I will firstly 
check the student manual, then try to contact other students who has the same article and at last contact teachers or lab assistants. A lot of information 
is available in the student manual, and information about all software is available on the website of Uppmax. Since I’m quite new in using both GitHub 
and Uppmax in the way we’re supposed to do in this course, that will probably be quite challenging in the beginning, but I will learn as I proceed 
with the project.
